My task was to integrate an arcGIS map into an eclipse rcp application
and to use the arcGIS API to plot specific geographical data.

ArcGIS is a product developed by ESRI for managing and designing solutions through the application of geographical knowledge.
A geographical information system.

Walter told me to do my task on the easiest way possible.
After some research, the easiest way found was to create an browser in eclipse rcp and to create an arcGIS webapplication, which I then run in the eclipse browser.
In the arcGIS webapplication a map with a specific map id is created using information from arcGIS.com.
The arcGIS javascript API was then used to add geographical data to the map.
Basically my map is created using a basemap from arcGIS online.

Here at the top we have all my buttons in the eclipse rcp platform, which call specific methods in my arcGIS javascript file.

To demonstrate the abbilities of my program, I have created a hundred random nodes.
Each node has its own random information, which is used to determine the range of each node.
This information can easily be changed to more specific data.
To indicate the nodes, I used a simple red pin icon, which changes to a pink square when the node is selected.
A node can either have a circular or conical range.
When you click on a node it shows the random information of the node and also its range.

click 2

To make analysis easier I created a function to clear the map.

Select is a function to select more than one node in an extent and thus display all their ranges.

Clear selection, clears the selected nodes, but leaves the ranges visible, for easy analysis.

Select Range enables the user to select all the nodes that have a range that is in the specified extent.

Show detailed example with click and clear and then exent.

The draw function is the same as the select range function, except the exent can now be specified with a freehand polygon.
This means that only if the range of the node is in the freehand polygon, will the node be selected.

I am here until next friday and from tomorrow I will be exploring the arcGIS java API to  determine if it can do the same as the javascript API

FAQ
What did I learn:
How to use javascript
How to use eclipse RCP

Why arcGIS and not google maps:
google maps is not a GIS, it is simply a very functional map.




